# The Things Network New York - Summary Short Version
The Internet of Things (IoT) is built from networks of devices such as sensors, gauges, and switches that are connected to the existing internet. These networks allow us (or computers) to monitor distant conditions and control distant processes using common internet applications.  
The need for mobility and low power consumption rule out using Wi-Fi or cell phone technology to connect the end points into a network. The data rate actually needed by data acquisition networks is far lower than the 5 megabits per second or more required for consumer applications such as streaming video. An ideal way to connect sensors into a network is LoRa, a robust 900MHz standard for low power, low volume, secure packet data radio transmission. 
The Things Network is a full open-source network software stack for setting up large numbers of LoRa-based sensors and routing the data to the applications (which can be in the cloud or on PCs).  Socially, TTN is a grass-roots movement of communities that have organized to enable a vital public good while protecting individual ownership and control of the data communicated over the network.  Unlike Wi-Fi and cellular, nodes connected via TTN require no configuration and incur no network fees.  Anyone can build or buy a node (sensor, etc.) of their choice, set it up anywhere in the community, and immediately have a gateway pick up their information and route it to their application via The Things Network.  Nearly 200 communities world-wide have already adopted TTN to provide a truly open IoT infrastructure.
